# Detective Conan Volume 8 - Who Is the Night Baron?

## Summary
### Case 019 - [Pro Soccer Player Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/Volume_7#Pro_Soccer_Player_Case)
#### Gadgets Introduced - [Portable Bento Box Fax](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/Volume_7#Gadgets_introduced)

<br>

#### File 071 - Found At Last !!
<details>
  <summary>Spoiler</summary>

  Ran, Conan, and Ryoko rush to Naoki's house to save Mamoru. Conan has made a call to Dr Agasa for backup. 

  Naoki hesitates to open the door and gives the excuse that his girlfriend is inside. Ran uses her karate skill to kick the door. They find Mamoru unhurt and playing video games there. They quickly make a call to Hideo to tell him that Mamoru is safe. 

  Naoki has been treating Hideo as his rival since high school. He felt he was better than Hideo until Hideo shattered his right leg in a practice game soon after he joined the team. He feels Hideo aimed for his leg on purpose. He was out for three months, and he couldn't catch up to Hideo's progress. Naoki mentions that he never planned to hurt Mamoru. He only wants to prove to Hideo that life doesn't always go as planned. 

  The Tokyo Spirits wins after Hideo scores two goals. Naoki asks Ryoko to call the police to report on him. After the match ends, a reporter interviews Hideo, and he tells him that he dedicates the match to Naoki and wishes Naoki a speedy recovery. Naoki feels guilty about it and says Hideo is an idiot because Hideo doesn't know what he has done.

  While Naoki is feeling guilty about his action, Ran suddenly appears and asks Naoki where Shinichi is hiding. Ryoko explains that actually, she doesn't know him and gives Ran Shinichi's fax number. Conan dashes out because the cell phone is in his backpack, but Ran thought Shinichi was the one who ran out of the apartment. 

Conan couldn't open the backpack and hide behind a wall. Ran questions him about who Ryoko is and why she was crying when talking on the phone with him. Ran says that she feels like crying. Conan stands on top of the pallet in front of a car's headlights, casting Shinichi's shadow on the wall. Shinichi says that he's innocent and asks Ran not to cry because he doesn't like to see her cry. Shinichi runs away after that, and Ran chases after him. Doctor Agasa is in the car and tells Ran that Shinichi ran away with a blushing face. Conan hides in the backseat of the car.

Ran makes Ryoko repeat her explanation of the case several times, which she kept from the police. Ran finally believes in Shinichi's innocence after three days.
</details>

#### Anime Episode(s)
* [Episode 10 - Pro Soccer Player Blackmail Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/Volume_7#Pro_Soccer_Player_Case).
* Manga vs Anime - [Pro Soccer Player Case vs Pro Soccer Player Blackmail Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/Pro_Soccer_Player_Blackmail_Case#Manga_to_anime_changes).

<br>
<hr>

### Case 020 - [Night Baron Murder Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/Volume_8#Night_Baron_Murder_Case)
#### File 072 - The Night Baron
Conan, Ran, and Kogoro get free accommodations for three days and two nights in a hotel in Izu from Dr Agasa. It turns out the accommodation is only half paid, and Kogoro didn't bring enough to pay the rest. Then, the story reflects back to Conan's phone conversation with Dr Agasa about how he and his friend won the "mystery tour" prize. His friend's granddaughter caught a cold, and Dr Agasa had to pass the prize to Conan. According to Dr Agasa, there are six teams made up of a total of ten tour participants, and the accommodations are half-priced. The tour will be free if the participant can identify the tour organiser, who will be posing as one of the ten participants, plus a disk with a programme on it. The names and room numbers of all the participants will be handed out to everyone in advance. During the tour, the organiser will disguise himself as the "Night Baron" and commit several crimes.

When Shiro Konno, a banker who stays in room 2002, asks Kogoro whether he is the "Night Baron", Kogoro appears confused, and it takes 3.04 seconds to respond to his question. Tokio Ebara, a computer programmer from room 2101, is bemused with the interaction and wishes it would be that easy to figure out who the Night Baron is. Genichiro Kaneshiro, a computer company owner, and his servant, Shizue Hayashi, suddenly appear. Genichiro disagrees with Tokio's opinion and says that people can reveal themselves when taken by surprise. Shiro records the participants' response times and compares the data to find the "Night Baron". Hideko Kamijo, president of a computer software company, denies the reliability of data because of missing Shiro's response time. Kogoro has no idea who "Night Baron" is until Ran tells him that the character comes from Yusaku Kudo's novels. 

While Conan realises that two participants are missing from a group of ten, Tokio tries to grope and flirt with Ran. Tokio attempts to drag Ran to pour a drink for him; another man appears from behind to stop him. Ran recognises the man is Satoru Maeda, a karate champion who inspired her to start karate in the first place. Conan feels jealous and remembers Ran said that she wanted to cry when she thought Ryoko was Shinichi's girlfriend. Suddenly, Satoru's fiancée, Akiko Sayama, a high school maths teacher, asks Satoru who is the girl that he's talking to. Shiro asks them if they are the Night Barons and records their response times into his laptop. Hideko finds it strange, saying that there are supposed to be two scientists and a little girl, and Ran explains that they came in Agasa's stead. She even tells her that her father is a detective, not a scientist. Everyone is shocked with the revelation. Tokio feels it's unfair to have a detective in the contest, but Hideko feels it's an advantage because they can eliminate Kogoro as the "Night Baron". Genichiro feels that they are at risk of exposing their weaknesses since a great detective is there. Ran feels happy that her father is famous, but Conan feels he should be thanked for that. Conan senses someone glaring at them before Ran asks him to go back to their room. After Conan explains the details of the contest, Kogoro is confident that he can win the free tour, and he's going to investigate who the "Night Baron" is while Ran and Conan will take a look around the hotel. 

Conan is still thinking about the deadly glare and wants to stay in the room for awhile. Ran is going to check out the gift store downstairs. Conan thought of Dr Agasa's words about the disk with a certain programme on it. Conan has bad feelings about it and plans to call Dr Agasa after dinner for details. Suddenly, Conan hears footsteps approaching from behind, and the "Night Baron" pushes Conan over the balcony.

<br>

#### File 073 - The Virus of Terror / The Terrible Virus
Luckily, Conan falls into the hotel pool, and he immediately rushes back to the room to look for the Night Baron. Conan doesn't understand how it reaches the point to push someone off a balcony because it's just a simple game to win free lodging. The mention of the disk still bothers him, and he plans to talk to Dr Agasa. Conan calls Dr Agasa at the lobby and finds out that the disk is called "Top Secret Programme", and his scientist friends mentioned something about some virus. Before Conan can ask more about the virus, Ran interrupts the phone call and asks him why he is soaking wet. Conan lies to Ran that he slipped and fell into the pool. If he tells the truth, Ran will ask to leave the place, but Conan wants to expose the Night Baron's identity. 

Later at dinner, Ran and Conan find Kogoro already sitting with Satoru and Akiko in the restaurant. Ran praises Akiko's dress and warns Akiko about Tokio, who looks at them with a perverted grin. Over dinner, Akiko reveals that she is a big fan of Yusaru's work, especially the Night Baron. Hideko appears in a sexy dress and tells Akiko that she's not the only one who loves the Night Baron. When she walks past, both Kogoro and Satoru can't stop admiring her, causing Ran and Akiko to be angry with them. Conan notices that Tokio is not interested in Hideko at all. Conan gives an excuse that he's going to the bathroom, but actually, he's going to talk to Genichiro after noticing that his servant is not around. Conan asks Genichiro if he's pursuing the computer virus, prompting him to explain in detail about it. Genichiro answers that anyone familiar with computers knows about a perfectly destructive, elusive virus, also named Night Baron. The name reminds him of his son who died four years ago. Shizue's arrival prevents any more questions, but after Conan leaves, Genichiro tells Shizue to be cautious with Conan. On the way back to his table, Conan hears Shiro on the phone saying that Tokio was the hacker. Shiro notices Conan is getting closer, and he stops Conan from touching the laptop, which he named after his late mother, Satomi. Then, Conan finds out that Tokio has left the restaurant, and he asks the waitress who is cleaning the table whether she knows where Tokio is. She tells him that Tokio went back to his room because he has things to do and asks Conan to return the tie Tokio had tied around his forehead while drinking. Ran finds Conan and tells him that others already went back to their room a long time ago.

When they return to the room, Kogoro is not there. Then, they hear an argument outside between Satoru and Akiko. Akiko accuses Satoru of cheating on her. Satoru tells Ran that Akiko claims he was flirting with the waitress. Satoru plans to go to the lounge until Akiko calms down and he invites Ran to join him. Ran is hesitant, as she worries that Akiko will be upset about it. Akiko slams the door, and Satoru says that it's better to leave her alone. He pulls Ran's hand and drags her to come along while Conan follows behind. At the lounge, Satoru flirts with Ran, and Conan pushes him to keep a distance from Ran. Ran asks how Satoru and Akiko met; Satoru was friends with Akiko's older brother, who died three years ago. Ran asks Satoru whether he knows where Kogoro is, and he says that he saw Kogoro with Hideko. 

Meanwhile, in the hotel pub, Hideko claims that she has been a divorcee for three years. Hideko tries to persuade Kogoro to reveal who the Night Baron is by flirting and later slipping something into his drink. After a while, Satoru decides to return to his room, saying that Conan is like Ran's "little bodyguard". Conan asks if Satoru knows what a virus is, but Satoru thinks it relates to having a cold. Conan wonders why the organiser gathers these participants with the virus as a reward. The virus can be used to extort a large amount of money from banks and large organisations. As Conan is contemplating whether it is really just a game, someone dressed as Night Baron falls from somewhere high up in the hotel. The victim is impaled on a statue in the dining courtyard.

<br>

#### File 074 - Underneath the Mask / Under the Mask
At the observation lounge, Conan and Ran plan to return to the room before they hear the talks from other guests about the death of someone in a mask and go to take a look. Conan tries to slip through the police barrier to unmask the victim only to be stopped by Sango Yokomizo, who was recently transferred from Saitama to Shizuoka. While Sango explains this to Ran, Conan takes the mask off, revealing Tokio. Ran recognises him and explains the mystery tour to Sango. Conan discovers that Tokio has one glove on and the tie is tied backwards. Sango assumes Tokio was the organiser but is unsure whether it's a suicide or an accidental death. Sango asks where Kogoro is, and Hideko tells them that Kogoro is still in the bar. Ran and Sango rush to the pub while Conan notices that Hideko is in tears behind her sunglasses. 

In the pub, they find Kogoro is passed out. Ran wakes Kogoro up, and they go to Tokio's room. They were unable to access the room because the latch had been secured until a police officer arrived with a handsaw to cut the latch. They find Tokio's clothes that he wore earlier on, and his room key is on the floor. The sliding door to the balcony is open, and a glove is stuck in the balcony railing. Kogoro assumes Tokio was trying to scare other participants by jumping from the balcony to the room below with the Night Baron's costume. Conan points out that on the 21st floor, Tokio would probably have used a rope and needed his room key to get back in. Kogoro smacks Conan for being a nuisance, causing Conan's fountain pen to fall to the ground below, and they leave the room to examine the body.

At the crime scene, Conan tries to find his pen around the statue. Satoru asks Kogoro whether Tokio really fell to his death, and Hideko confirms the death and mentions that Tokio is the Night Baron. Genichiro calls it a lousy story for the invincible Night Baron to die, and the game is over. Conan is suspicious of Genichiro and raises the issue with the reversed knot on the necktie. Kogoro thinks it could be a habit, and Conan suddenly remembers the necktie that the waitress asks him to return to Tokio. The necktie has a normal knot. Conan also notices that the belt on the victim has been tightened from the wrong side. Based on the unusual knot and the belt, Kogoro and Sango deduce that someone dressed the victim, leading to the conclusion that Tokio was murdered by one of the participants. They begin to question others for their alibis. Ran and Conan confirm that they were with Satoru at the lounge; Hideko reminds Kogoro she was with him, but Conan points out that Kogoro was drunk. Genichiro and Shizue claim that they were already on the scene when Tokio fell, but no one can testify to it during such a chaotic situation. Shiro claims that he was reading emails in his room and asks them to check the hotel's records, but he doesn't have a human's alibi. Akiko was watching TV until Satoru returned, and so she has no solid alibi either. 

At the same time, in the hotel office where Tokio's body is, someone attacks the police officer on guard. After the police finish questioning the suspects, Akiko returns with Ran and Conan to their floor. Akiko complains that Kogoro and Sango suspect her. While Conan ponders the vague alibis and the method used by the murderer to escape the room, Akiko tells Ran that she called the front desk for a wake-up call but thought it was useless due to the call being too short to be proof. Ran says Akiko should be fine just as the elevator door opens – to reveal the Night Baron in a bloody mask, standing just outside.

<br>

#### File 075 - Ran's Tears
After the initial shock with Night Baron's existence, Ran immediately attacks him with a powerful kick, but he is able to dodge it and runs away. Conan tries to get her to chase, but Ran and Akiko are too stunned. They go to tell Kogoro what happened and also learn that the police officer was attacked when guarding the body. Although the body is safe, the costume is missing. Suddenly, another police officer comes and informs Sango that the Baron is in the pool. They find the mask, the hat, a wig, and a cape are floating in the pool. According to the witnesses, they heard a splash, and when they got there, they saw the costumes floating in the pool. Conan deduces that the costume must have been thrown from that balcony, but he doesn't understand why the suspect wore the costume and stood in front of the elevator instead of using the staircase for discretion. Conan wonders if the appearance is unplanned, and the police decide to re-interrogate all the suspects. All the suspects were in their rooms as instructed by the police, so no one has an alibi. The police decide to check everyone's room and begin with Satoru's. Conan notices the location of the balcony and the distance to Tokio's room. He takes note of the position in his notebook and is annoyed with the loss of his expensive fountain pen, while Sango finds some sleeping pills belonging to Akiko, which she claims are for her insomnia. 

In Genichiro's and Shizue's room, Conan sees that Tokio's room is directly above, but it's difficult to make notes due to the windy conditions. Kogoro is annoyed with Conan's presence but flatters when Conan says that he's learning Kogoro's detective skills. Conan asks Genichiro whether the window is always locked, and Shizue says that she checks it every time they go out. Before they proceed to Shiro's room, Genichiro tells them that he heard a rumour about Shiro. Shiro was suspected of manipulating computer data at his bank and got demoted. Genichiro indicates that Shiro has more reasons to meet the Night Baron than any other participants.

In Shiro's room, Sango confirms with Shiro about the rumour told by Genichiro. Shiro feels amused with what he heard and says that Genichiro hates the Night Baron because the virus killed his son. Conan notices that the room's window is the closest to Tokio's balcony, but it's still too far to jump. Then, Shiro is saying that Hideko was married to Tokio but divorced three years ago. 

In Hideko's room, Hideko confirms that she was married to Tokio but divorced after she found out he was a hacker. Then, she tells them that Akiko's elder brother used to have a small computer software company. Everyone has a motive to kill. Conan notices Hideko has the same pills as Akiko had. Hideko gets defensive when he asks about the pills and says they're cold pills. Conan doesn't get the chance to check her window after Kogoro shoves him out. He guesses that Hideko's room is just above Shiro's room, leaving Genichiro and Shizue's room as the only room reachable from Tokio's balcony. While he is looking at his sketched floor map, he sees the forensics team looking at a piece of the door guard and finds a piece of Sellotape stuck to its tip.

In the hotel room, Ran is sitting on the bed, feeling upset knowing that only a certain person could dodge her kick the way Night Baron did. Ran wishes for Shinichi to tell her what to do. A knock on the door interrupts her; she opens the door while the latch is still unfastened until she sees Conan. Conan mentions that his experiment was a success, although Ran doesn't remember fastening it. He notices her face and asks if she was crying. Ran lies that she is yawning, and Conan runs off again. He ends up in the same elevator as the two policemen, and he overhears them mentioning that the police officer who was guarding Tokio's body is a strong practitioner in karate. Conan suddenly suspects that Satoru is the Night Baron.

<br>

#### File 076 - The Wind's Mischief?! / A Trick of the Wind!?
Conan remembers the encounter between the Night Baron and Ran. He figures out that Ran gives a warning kick, and only one person is capable of dodging it. Conan is worried about Ran. In the hotel room, Ran remembers a time when she asked Shinichi what he would do if the criminal were someone he knew. He said that he would reveal the truth because he would have already looked everywhere to prove that the person is innocent. Ran decides to follow Shinichi's words. 

In Satoru's room, Akiko apologises to him for asking him to come to this tour with him, which resulted in a mess. Satoru says that it's not her fault, as he's the one who insisted on coming along. He put the blame on the Night Baron, and Akiko remembers the incident at the elevator. Initially, she wants to ask him something, but she changes her mind.

In the interrogation room, Sango couldn't find out how the victim's room's door was latched from the inside, and the murderer probably left through the balcony. Besides, it was windy, and it's risky for someone to try to escape via balcony on the 21st floor. Then, a police officer mentions the Scotch tape on the door latch. Conan demonstrates to Kogoro and Sango how to use the Scotch tape to secure the latch from the inside. This leads Sango to believe that Tokio was murdered, set up to look like an accident. Sango recalls all the suspects' alibis, and Conan tells him that Akiko has made a call to the front desk around 10 pm. They go to the front desk and verify with the hotel staff about Akiko's call. When they go to the pub to check on Hideko's alibi, Kogoro is shocked that the bartender reports Hideko's suspicious use of drugs on his drink. According to the bartender, she went to the bathroom after that. She came back after five minutes, right before the incident. She was at the pub when the murder occurred and left after hearing the commotion. Then, they go to the outdoor restaurant to check on Genichiro's and Shizue's alibis, and they are cleared. Conan notices that only Satoru and Shiro didn't have a solid alibi when the murder occurred; plus, the police officer who got attacked is a karate expert. Then, Ran suddenly appears and asks Conan where her father is. She tells him that she found an alibi for Satoru. After Satoru left Ran and Conan at the lounge, he was talking to some fans outside. They got his autograph with the date and time written on it. Conan suggests Ran bring the fans to the police to provide the details.

The only remaining suspect is Shiro. Conan finds it strange that if Satoru signed the autographs, why didn't he mention it during the interrogation? As Conan is thinking about the case, he finds his fountain pen on the ground in the outdoor restaurant. He learns that the wind blows constantly every night and is stronger at higher elevations than at ground level. Conan remembers which room has strong winds blowing outside and also finds out who the killer is. Nearby, Kogoro hears that the police officer who got attacked is a karate practitioner and orders the suspects to be summoned. Conan jots down some additional instructions to the policemen, claiming that Kogoro wants to conduct some experiments to find the murderer.

<br>

#### File 077 - Secret of the Fall Spot / The Secret of the Landing Spot
<details>
  <summary>Spoiler</summary>

At the outdoor restaurant, Conan waits for the experiment to be ready while Kogoro reviews the murder and alibis. Kogoro accuses Satoru as the murderer, but Ran interrupts him with the fans to provide Satoru's alibi. Kogoro changes his accusation to Shiro. Once the police signal that the experiment is ready, Conan knocks Kogoro out with a tranquiliser dart, and the experiment begins.

The experiment uses futons to simulate a human body, and the futons drop from every suspect's room. The strong wind blows from the left to the right of the bronze statue. During this time of year, a strong wind called Princess Wind blows above the hotel every night. The suspect did not latch the door after the crime but before the murder. The crime occurred in the murderer's room. The futon which marks Akiko's and Satoru's room is on top of the bronze statue. Ran tries to defend them by saying it's a coincidence, but Conan denies the possibility of coincidence and mentions Akiko's fake alibi by calling the front desk. Satoru tries to protect Akiko and confesses to the murder and admits that he was the one who dressed as the Night Baron. Conan tells everyone that Satoru dressed as the Baron to divert suspicion from Akiko by stealing the costume from the office where the body was being held. Conan claims that Satoru was not an accomplice. Satoru created the fake alibi after finding out who the murderer was. He also found the wig in the murderer's belongings, which was not with the body in the office but was floating in the pool later.

Akiko confesses the murder. She wants to take revenge for her elder brother whom Tokio killed three years ago. Her brother committed suicide after Tokio hacked the software developed by his brother, and he sold it to Hideko. Hideko discovered the piracy and discontinued sales after less than a year. Akiko also confesses that she pushed Conan into the pool to try to scare Kogoro off before killing Tokio. Akiko tells Satoru to forget her, and she laughs when the police lead her away, but Conan notices there are tears in her eyes. To her shock, Satoru says he'll wait for her, but she replies with "stupid" without looking back. Satoru is taken in a separate car for obstructing the investigation, but according to Sango, he can get off with mitigating circumstances. 

The next morning, all the tour participants check out of the hotel. Hideko admits that she slipped sleeping pills into Kogoro's drink because she wanted to check his pocket notebook to find out who the Night Baron was. Unfortunately, there's nothing written in his pocketbook, and Hideko wants the virus so she can create antivirus software. Genishiro wanted the virus to take revenge on the virus creator who ruined a programme he wrote four years ago. He even pretended to have impaired vision to look harmless. Hideko mentions that she heard Ran worked hard to find an alibi for Satoru. Ran admits that she is a big fan of Satoru and mentions "he" told her not to give up until the end. Hideko assumes Ran means a boyfriend, though Ran denies it. Conan asks who she means, and Ran wonders why Conan bothers about it. She tells Conan that he knows who that person is, describing Shinichi as "that mystery geek that's wandering around somewhere", but Conan looks confused after hearing it.

</details>

#### Anime Episode(s)
* [Episode 68 - 70: Night Baron Murder Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/Night_Baron_Murder_Case).
* Manga vs Anime - [Night Baron Murder Case](https://www.detectiveconanworld.com/wiki/List_of_differences_between_the_manga_and_anime#Night_Baron_Murder_Case_.28Episode_68-70.29.2FNight_Baron.2C_The_Terrible_Virus.2C_Underneath_the_Mask.2C_Ran.27s_Tears.2C_A_Trick_of_the_Wind.21.3F_and_Secret_of_the_Fall_Spot_.28Chapter_72-77.29).
> In the manga, when Ran goes to tell her drunk father about the death of Tokio Ebara, Kogoro jumps at her and flirts with her as he mistakenly takes her for Hideko Kamijo leading to Ran slapping him. In the anime, this scene was removed entirely, probably for fear of being too controversial with its incestuous undertone.

<br>
<hr>

### Case 021 - [Poisoned Bride Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/Volume_8#Poisoned_Bride_Case)

#### File 078 - The Bride's Tragedy
Ran, Sonoko, and Conan attend the wedding of their junior high music teacher, Miss Sayuri Matsumoto. Sonoko teases Ran, asking where the guy that Miss Matsumoto always yelled at during music class for being off-key is. Ran tells Sonoko that Shinichi said that he's not coming while Conan attends the wedding because he's curious to know who will marry the teacher. Sonoko and Ran are amazed with how beautiful Miss Matsumoto is in the wedding dress, and Conan agrees with them. Miss Matsumoto is looking for Shinichi, whom she called "the cheeky kid" because she wants to show off her wedding dress to him. Then, she asks who the boy is and feels Conan's face is familiar after Ran introduces him to her. Ran and Sonoko are in charge of videotaping on that day, and they begin focusing the camera on Miss Matsumoto and Conan.

Kazumi Takenaka, Sayuri's college friend, comes into the room with a hot lemon tea. Conan remembers Sayuri has the habit of drinking lemon tea during class. Sayuri wants to drink from the can, but Kazumi offers her a straw so that Sayuri's lipstick will not come off. Suddenly, Sayuri apologises to Kazumi about marrying Toshihiko, and Kazumi jokingly says that she will tell everybody at the reception that the groom used to be her boyfriend. Kazumi leaves the room, and Sayuri realises that Kazumi bought several canned drinks for others. Sayuri's father, Kiyonaga Matsumoto, Metropolitan Police Superintendent, comes into the room with Inspector Megure. He asks Sayuri whether she is sure about marrying her fiancé and tells her that it's not too late to change her mind. Sayuri reminds him that he said that he would accept whomever she chooses, and he hesitantly accepts it. Then, another visitor comes into the room and gives Sayuri a beautiful bouquet of roses. He is Atsushi Umemiya, a former junior high school student who used to be interested in Sayuri. After Atsushi leaves, the video recorder's battery becomes low. Ran and Sonoko go to buy batteries, leaving Conan and Sayuri. She comments that Conan looks like Shinichi, and both look like her first love. She tells him about her childhood story and the first love who got her hooked with hot lemon tea. However, Sayuri's first love suddenly moved away, and just as before, Sayuri can tell Conan more; they are interrupted by the groomsmen shoving the groom, Toshihiko Takasugi, into the room. He compliments Sayuri's beauty but comments on lemon tea as a cheap drink. Sonoko and Ran return, with Sonoko recognising the groom as the heir to the Takasugi Group. She tells Ran that he often appears at parties and doesn't have good reputations. Suddenly, Sayuri passionately kisses her fiancee, and they assume the marriage should be fine since Sayuri is with him. Then, someone comes in and informs them that the ceremony is going to start soon. They all leave Sayuri, but immediately they hear something drop to the ground inside the room. Ran knocks on the door but got no response from the room. She opens the door, and both she and Conan are shocked to see Sayuri is on the floor with blood on her mouth and clothes.

<br>

#### File 079 - Forbidden Lemon Tea?! / The Forbidden Lemon Tea!?
Conan asks Ran to quickly call the ambulance. Conan notices there are no changes in the straw, but the opener of the can is starting to corrode. He rinses her mouth to counter the effects of the caustic soda in the tea.

Everyone is shocked when they hear the news that Sayuri coughed blood. Sayuri is taken to the hospital. Meanwhile, a CSI officer informs Inspector Megure that the lemon tea was mixed with caustic soda. Megure tells Kiyonaga about Sayuri's condition, but her chances of survival are unknown. Kiyonaga doesn't allow anyone to accompany Sayuri. He believes everyone is a suspect, and he wants to start the investigation on who might have poisoned Sayuri. While some of them are suspecting Toshihiko, Conan tells the CSI officer about something floating in the lemon tea. It is a capsule that the perpetrator filled with caustic soda and put into the lemon tea. Everyone who entered the room is now a suspect. They check on the videotape that Sonoko and Ran made, but the tape doesn't show anyone put the capsule in. Ran and Sonoko worry about Sayuri. Toshihiko mentions that when he was young, there was a girl that he liked who loved to drink lemon tea that he gave her, but unfortunately, he didn't know her name. In the background, Kazumi glares at him. 

The forensic results indicate that the capsule would take around 16 minutes to dissolve in the drink. Atsushi is happy that he can be eliminated as a suspect because both he and Toshihiko went to the room ten minutes before Sayuri collapsed. Strangely, Matsumoto's fingerprints are not on the can. Conan notices that Ran put her can on top of the stool besides the video recorder. He learns from the officer that Atsushi's fingerprints were also missing from the can. While Conan is thinking who the perpetrator is, an officer comes in and tells Megure that they found a desiccant inside a container which the perpetrator used to carry the caustic soda because the chemical is sensitive to water. Conan asks the police officer where he found the container, and he tells Conan that they found it in the trash can in the hallway. The answer confirms Conan's speculation about who the culprit is.

<br>

#### File 080 - A Reason to Kill
<details>
  <summary>Spoiler</summary>

Sonoko and Ran want to leave to see Sayuri, but Megure doesn't allow them to do so since the investigation is still ongoing. Conan has to use Sonoko's voice to reveal the killer. He uses the tranquiliser needle to knock her out and the bowtie to impersonate her.

Seven people entered and subsequently left the room, but there are only five suspects. Since the capsule takes around 15 minutes to dissolve for the poison to leak out, the perpetrator put the poison capsule in the lemon tea at least 15 minutes before Sayuri collapsed. The capsule was found floating in the lemon tea. It doesn't mean the poison was inside the capsule. The perpetrator put the poison and the half-dissolved capsule into the lemon tea separately. Everyone believes that the poisoning happened at least 15 minutes before the collapse because they assume the capsule contained poison. Conan directs Megure to watch the tape at the time before Ran and Sonoko left to get batteries. The label on the can which Sayuri drinks switched sides because Sayuri picked up the wrong can, which belonged to Sonoko, proving that the poison was placed less than seven minutes before Sayuri drank it. Toshihiko handed the can back directly to Sayuri, but besides Toshihiko, it is also possible for Sayuri to put poison in it. However, Sayuri didn't leave her room during the thirty minutes prior to her collapse. The poison requires an airtight container with desiccant inside, and the container was found in the trash can out in the hall. 

Conan reveals the person who could have poisoned the lemon tea was Toshihiko. When Matsumoto grabs him and demands to know why he did that, Toshihiko responds that he wanted Matsumoto to feel the same heartbreak that he felt 20 years ago. Twenty years ago, when Matsumoto was chasing a criminal, the criminal crashed his car into a wall and hit Toshihiko's mother. She was still alive at that time. Toshihiko begged Matsumoto to take his mother to the hospital, but Matsumoto ignored him and continued with his pursuit. Toshihiko's mother passed away thirty minutes later. Megure asks Matsumoto whether what Toshihiko said is true. Matsumoto says that he didn't see the victim because she was hidden by the car. Later, when he found out about the accident, he rushed to Toshihiko's house, but he had already moved. Toshihiko claims that his mother was his only family, and later he was adopted by the Takasugi family. He had almost forgotten the revenge until he met Sayuri in college. Matsumoto yells at him, asking why he does not kill him instead. Toshihiko replies that if he does that, Matsumoto would never understand the pain of losing someone who is close to him. He even claims that he is lucky because Kazumi was his girlfriend who befriended Sayuri. He even says that Sayuri is stupid to accept his marriage proposal without knowing that he was using her to get revenge. Matsumoto assumes Sayuri possibly fell for the Takasugi family fortune, but Conan doesn't think it was for the money. Suddenly, Kazumi slaps Toshihiko. She yells at him for assuming he knows everything, revealing that he is Sayuri's first love and Sayuri knew everything about his past. Sayuri accepted his proposal despite knowing about the accident and worried that he couldn't forgive her father. Conan realises Sayuri probably saw Toshihiko put the poison into her drink and yet willingly drank the poisoned drink anyway. Suddenly, an officer arrived with the news that Sayuri had an operation, and she will recover. Everyone feels relieved, including Toshihiko, who is in tears. 

Two months later, Sayuri is released from the hospital, and Ran, Sonoko, and Conan visit her. Sayuri mentions that Toshihiko's sentence was reduced because she drank the caustic soda of her own will. Sayuri still continues to drink lemon tea, and the narrative reveals that three years later, Sayuri gets married to Toshihiko in the end.

</details>

#### Anime Episode(s)
* [Episode 18 - A June Bride Murder Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/A_June_Bride_Murder_Case).
* Manga vs Anime - [Poisoned Bride Case vs A June Bride Murder Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/A_June_Bride_Murder_Case#Manga_to_anime_change).

<br>
<hr>

### Personal Thoughts
Good to know that there is something that Shinichi is not good at.

<br>
<hr>


##### Record
| Title | Description |
| -- | -- |
| **ISBN** | 9781421501116 / 1421501112 |
| **Pages** | 192 |
| **Published Year** | 15/11/2005 (Original Published Date: 09/12/1995) |
| **Date Read** | 01-05-2026 - 10-05-2026 |
| **Rating** | 5 / 5 |
| **Genre** | Manga, Mystery |
| **Country** | Japan |
| **Notes / Themes** | murder, revenge, greed, detective, investigation  | 
