# Detective Conan Volume 11 - An Unfamiliar Face

## Summary

### Case 027 - Medical Professors Murder Case / Snowy Mountain Cabin Case
#### File 101 - A Talking Table Cloth / The Talking Tablecloth 

Conan wants to tell Kogoro about the lighter, but Kogoro feels Conan is annoying. Conan decides to put Kogoro to sleep and changes his voice to Kogoro's to reveal who the murderer is. 

Conan analyses the alibis and narrows them down to two suspects, Tomoyasu and Kaori. Kaori shows the proof that she bought all the requested snacks, but when Conan asks for the receipt, she says that she lost it. Conan deduces that Kaori bought the snacks beforehand when she bought the ingredients for the hot pot. She hid the snacks in the car and later pretended that she went to the convenience store to create an alibi. Then, she snuck into the room and murdered Masashi. Kaori strongly opposes the accusation and mentions that Tomoyasu's alibi is weak as well. Conan asks the others to place back the tablecloth on the table, and they see the victim's dying message. The victim's formal sitting position reminds them of Shogi, a Japanese version of chess. Coincidentally, every name of the guest includes a character used on a shogi piece. Conan asks Ran to place the bloodied lighter on the tablecloth, and the blood on the specific grid of the tablecloth matches with the lighter. The character for the shogi piece at the starting position implicates Kaori's name. Kaori was the first person who discovered the body. After confirming Masashi is dead, she screamed, but when she saw the dying message, the approaching footsteps made her panic. In one quick move, she flung off the tablecloth, and the lighter flew to the sofa. Conan also points out Kaori claimed that the salad and ice cream were sold out, but ice cream is almost never sold out, which struck Conan. Conan wouldn't have had any suspicions if Kaori brought back all the snacks that they ordered. 

Kaori confesses to killing Masashi because he stole her paper, which she had worked hard on for the past six years. The paper was written for her father. Kaori's father died of intestinal cancer, and she became a doctor and dedicated herself to researching intestinal cancer. However, Masashi stole her paper and told her that the public will pay more attention to him than her. This led Kaori to come up with a plan to kill Masashi by puncturing his lungs so he had to suffer as much as possible before dying. Kaori also explains that the salad was really sold out, and she did buy the ice cream as ordered. She parked the car in the forest, and when she was about to kill him, she started thinking about her father. While she was reminiscing, the ice cream melted from the car heater. She admits that it's stupidity because the ice cream ordered by Masashi became her downfall.

On a different day, Kogoro and Conan are having a shogi game. Kogoro is excited that he's winning, but Conan uses the tiles to create the word "Fool" on the board. He asks Kogoro to view the board from a different perspective and runs away before Kogoro figures out the word.

#### Anime Episode(s)
* [Episode 46 - Alpine Hut in the Snowy Mountain Murder Case / The Snowy Mountain Lodge Murder Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/Alpine_Hut_in_the_Snowy_Mountain_Murder_Case).

<br>
<hr>

### Case 028 - [TV Station Murder Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/Volume_11#TV_Station_Murder_Case)
#### File 102 - Death During Live Beoadcast / A Death During a Live Broadcast 
Michihiko, who works as a TV producer at Nichiuri Television, receives a call from director Kuroshima. Michihiko starts to apologise for cancelling the director's movie until he recognises Takashi Matsuo's voice. They reminisce about how they met and how talented Takashi is in impersonating Kuroshima. Michihiko asks Takashi what he wants. If it's about something in the meeting, the answer is still the same. Takashi replies that it's not about the meeting and he has an idea for a TV programme for Michihiko. He suggests meeting tomorrow after the live broadcast at their usual room and hopes Michihiko doesn't mind clearing out the room so that nobody will copy his idea. Despite Michihiko sounding annoyed by the idea, he agrees to listen to Takashi for the last time. Takashi promises that it will be the last time before Michihiko hangs up the phone. Later, it is revealed that Takashi is holding the photo of him and Michihiko at a press conference. He tosses the photo in the air before firing a gun at it.

Michihiko, who works as a TV producer at Nichiuri Television, receives a call from director Kuroshima. Michihiko starts to apologise for cancelling the director's movie until he recognises Takashi Matsuo's voice. They reminisce about how they met and how talented Takashi is in impersonating Kuroshima. Michihiko asks Takashi what he wants. If it's about something in the meeting, the answer is still the same. Takashi replies that it's not about the meeting and he has an idea for a TV programme for Michihiko. He suggests meeting tomorrow after the live broadcast at their usual room and hopes Michihiko doesn't mind clearing out the room so that nobody will copy his idea. Despite Michihiko sounding annoyed by the idea, he agrees to listen to Takashi for the last time. Takashi promises that it will be the last time before Michihiko hangs up the phone. Later, it is revealed that Takashi is holding the photo of him and Michihiko at a press conference. He tosses the photo in the air before firing a gun at it.

A countdown begins for the live show. When the show begins, Takashi, the host, and Ayako Nagai, his assistant, introduce themselves. The show is about solving cases sent by the viewers across the country. Kogoro is the guest star of the show. Ayako asks him what the hardest case he ever handled was, and Kogoro replies that he can't resist falling asleep after solving a case, so he doesn't remember a thing. The audience laughs, and Conan and Ran are in the audience as well. Ran is bemused by it, while Conan thinks there is no other answer for Kogoro because he is always sleeping. Three of them will host the one-hour show, and the commercial break begins after that. During the commercial break, Ayako asks Takashi what joke to say at the ending of the show. She notices him groaning and asks what happened. He tells her that he has had an upset stomach since that morning and then wonders where Michihiko is. Michihiko always watches the show from the studio, but he is nowhere to be seen. Takashi asks one of the crew to find Michihiko. Ayako wonders whether Takashi and Michihiko are going out for a drink after that, but Takashi replies that it's not about drinking. He tells her that someone will replace him as the host of the show, and Ayako confirms that she heard the rumour that Yuko Suzuki would be the new host. Takashi says that Michihiko called him last night, begging him to continue hosting the show. Ayako is surprised with the revelation because she heard that it was Michihiko's decision to get a new host. Takashi says that he can't stay because he has a new job somewhere, but at the same time, he finds it hard to turn Michiko down. 

In the meeting room on the fourth floor, Michihiko is talking on the phone, assuring the crew that he's watching the show on the monitor. He also asks the crew to inform Takashi that he is waiting in the meeting room alone. On the room's monitor, the show implies that Kogoro is uncomfortable with firearms, although he was a former policeman. Ayako reveals that Takashi has interest in firearms and is a pro, but Takashi quickly denies it. Michihiko talks to himself, noting that Takashi is quite popular and the TV ratings have already stabilised. He hopes that the rating will significantly increase once he gets a beautiful host and also has some steamy segments in the show, and eventually he will get a promotion as well.

Back to the studio, the show continues with the discussion about eavesdropping. Takashi says that he bought a cell phone to avoid eavesdropping. Kogoro replies that it is an amateur act and explains that cell phones emit radio waves, creating a higher chance to attract people to listen to any conversations. In the audience, Conan is impressed with how knowledgeable Kogoro is. Kogoro then grabs Takashi's phone, makes a call and sweet-talks during the live show. He ends the call and gives a warning to all the adulterers and cheaters to be careful. Kogoro asks the host to cut off his time talking on the phone, but the host reminds him that it is a live show. Everyone laughs, but Ran is embarrassed, and Conan feels Kogoro is an idiot. 

The show proceeds to the Whodunit section. It shows a four-minute video, and they will ask who the criminal is after the video ends. In the meeting room, Michihiko watches the show and claims spending money on the video is stupid. Suddenly, Takashi calls him in the middle of the live show. He wants Michihiko to listen to his last impersonation of Kuroshima because he's going to jump off from the top of the building. Takashi also mentions that he's going to drag Michihiko along. In his suicide note, he has included all the dirty things done by Michihiko. Takashi laughs because he can imagine what the newspaper headlines tomorrow will look like. He asks Michihiko to watch him die, leading Michihiko to open the window to look up. Michihiko tries to calm Takashi down, promising that he will take care of the hosting matter. He wants to know where the suicide note is, but Takashi replies that it is too late. Michihiko is in shock with the response, and a gun is fired after that.

In the studio, Ayako is fascinated with the four-minute video and asks Takashi whether he comes up with the idea every week. Takashi replies yes, and Ayako wonders if Takashi is alright because he is sweating. Takashi mentions his stomach is still unwell before the crew informs them that the video is ending and asks them to take a seat. Ran asks Conan whether he figures out who the killer is after the video ends. Conan looks bored and almost gives the correct answer before changing it to a wrong one. After the show ends, Takashi says thanks to Kogoro, who is joined by Ran and Conan. A crew member interjects and informs Takashi that Michihiko seems not to be in the meeting room because he has neither answered the phone in the room nor his cell phone. Takashi asks the crew to go to the meeting room to take a look, and Conan feels something is strange. Then, the crew at the studio talk on the phone and scream that Michihiko is covered in blood. Everyone in the studio runs to the meeting room, and they have to use the stairs because the lift is not working. One side of the staircase ends on the 7th floor, and the crew shouts at them to go to a different staircase. When they reach the intended floor, a small crowd is standing outside of the room, trying to take a look. Conan squeezes through the crowd and sees Michihiko is sitting on the floor with a shot wound on his forehead. Conan turns around and sees that Takashi is smirking.

<br>

#### File 103 - The Secret Path / Illusionary Road
The police arrive later and find the victim had a clean shot through the head, exiting through the window behind him. Two slug shots were stuck behind the poster and one by the clock. They also find a gun with a silencer and four shell casings in the room. Megure mentions that it would be difficult to identify the murderer without witnesses. Suddenly, Conan sees a bloodied cell phone on the floor near the victim and deduces that the victim must have been talking to someone on the phone just before the shot.

Outside the room, a news reporter rushes to Takashi and asks him whether the crime was committed in opposition to his programme and whether the act was from an angry fan since there's a rumour that Takashi is leaving the show. Takashi says that the rumour is true but mentions that Michihiko wanted him to stay. He says that he will fulfil Michihiko's wish, take the murder case on the show to find the killer and openly challenge the murderer.

Megure asks the TV crew about his call to Michihiko and concludes that the crime occurred between 8.15 and 8.55 pm. Initially, he suspects Takashi because Takashi has experience with guns, but Takashi has a solid alibi, which is hosting a live show around that time. Conan agrees and praises how good the mini-mystery show was. He points out that the four-minute video was too good, and everyone was glued to the screen. Conan's additional comment shocks Takashi, and a crew member mentions that he saw Takashi leave the studio at that time. Takashi says that he went to the bathroom and asks Ayako to confirm that he was having stomach problems. When Kogoro accuses him of bringing a gun, Takashi defensively claims that he's innocent and it's impossible to run from the studio on the 9th floor to the meeting room on the 4th floor, which requires more than 6 minutes round trip. Conan is shocked with the revelation, and Takashi quickly defends that it was a wild guess. Megure asks Kogoro to give it a try, and it takes slightly more than 6 minutes.

Megure asks the staff whether Kogoro was taking the fastest route, and the staff confirms it. Conan asks a different staff member whether there are any other shortcuts that only the people at the station know. Another staff member suggests maybe cutting through the 6th floor, but his colleague mentions that there is a drama being shot there between eight and ten. The route could save ten seconds at most. Then, a police officer states that the tapes of the security cameras didn't show Takashi's appearance around the time of the crime. Takashi is glad that he's proven innocent and says that the audience can vouch for him. Conan is confident that Takashi is the murderer, but he doesn't know yet how Takashi made the round trip from the studio to the meeting room in four minutes. While he's thinking about the case, Ran appears and asks Conan angrily where he was, and Conan replies that he was with Kogoro the whole time. Ran admits that she was lost because the building is like a maze. Conan replies that TV stations have complex layouts to prevent guerrilla takeover. Ran is amazed at how knowledgeable Conan is, prompting him to quickly defend himself by explaining that someone in the TV station mentioned it to him. Conan eliminates all the possible routes that have security cameras and heavy foot traffic. While Conan and Ran are finding ways to return to the crime scene, Conan goes to the 7th floor storage room and deduces that the murderer used a rope to descend to the meeting room. Then, he rejects the theory because the murderer requires more time to climb back to return to the studio. 

When they return to the crime scene, Conan is surprised to hear the police still have no clue who was talking on the phone with the victim. This leads Conan to believe that the person on the phone was a murderer but still doesn't understand how the killing worked. Suddenly, Conan realises his mistake and runs out of the room. He finds a large scratch mark on one of the floor tiles outside the building, which he believes is the secret path. However, he doesn't have proof to catch the murderer. Then, Takashi's phone rings and claims of being careless, leaving the phone on the whole time, while Ayako says it's lucky that it didn't ring during the live show. Conan figures out something when Takashi is talking on the phone.

<br>

#### File 104 - Flash News Deduction Show / Emergency Detective Show
<details>
  <summary>Spoiler</summary>

Conan lures Kogoro to the storage room by telling him that his favourite idol is leaving if they don't hurry. Conan puts Kogoro to sleep. When a group of TV crew passes by, he asks them to lend him the paint gun and TV camera for Kogoro's live detective show. Meanwhile, Takashi asks Megure whether he can leave Kogoro, who appears on a monitor screen, and stops him from leaving. A group of TV crew appears in the meeting room to broadcast when Megure explains the details of the case and the impossibility of Takashi committing the murder. Conan mentions that it could be done from the window of the 7th-floor storage room, which is three floors above the meeting room.

While the staff at the TV station are broadcasting and watching the show, the chief comes in and asks them to broadcast it countrywide. At the same time, Sonoko's mother is asking her not to stay late, but she wants to finish the movie first, but the movie suddenly is interrupted by Kogoro's live detective show. The public is watching the show, and Ayumi sees Conan appear on a big screen while walking on the street. 

Conan demonstrates how Takashi shot the victim from the window of the storage room. He pretends that he is almost falling, leading Megure to open the window from the meeting room, and Conan shoots the paint gun at Megure from above. Then, he drops the gun into the meeting room, which goes through the open window. Megure questions how the murderer made the victim look up out the window, and Conan replies that the person on the phone probably said that he was going to jump off the building, which caused the victim to quickly open the window to stop him from jumping. Conan deduces that there's a bullet hole directly below the window. He believes that Takashi had planted other bullet holes and shell casings in the room before the murder. Nobody noticed the hidden bullet holes, and when the police found them after the murder, they concluded the murderer was in the room and randomly fired the gun. Megure asks for the explanation that the window was barely open when the body was found. Conan asks Megure to act as the victim. Once a man is shot, the legs will get weak and the body will have slowly slid down, causing the window to be barely open.

Conan explains how Takashi made a staff member check on the victim to create his alibi. Takashi asks for the proof that he's the killer, or else all the explanations are merely theoretical. Megure wants to check Takashi's clothing for gunpowder, but Conan knows that Takashi wouldn't make such a careless mistake. However, Conan points out that Takashi forgot to turn off his cell phone, which means the redial function remains active. Conan asks Megure to push the redial button on Takashi's phone. The victim's phone rings, but Takashi denies it and says that somebody must have used the phone when he left it on a table before the show. Conan is convinced that Takashi called the victim during the show because Kogoro used his phone to call the bar before the video. If Takashi didn't make a call after that, the phone would've redialled the bar instead. Conan also points out that the phone remained in Takashi's coat pocket the entire time after Kogoro made the call. 

Takashi is speechless and admits to his mistake of inviting Kogoro to the show on that day. He confesses to the murder because he wants to stay in the show that he and the victim came up with. In exchange for giving the sole credit to Michihiko for creating the show, Takashi got to be the host. Out of nowhere, Michihiko asks Takashi to step down. Takashi explains how hard he worked every week to find new topics and the mini mystery. A long time ago, two of them would meet up to discuss ideas for the show, and he misses those days. 

The police take Takashi away, and Kogoro just wakes up from his nap. Ran and Megure appear on the camera and praise Kogoro for doing a good job. Kogoro is angry with Conan for dragging him to that room, and he doesn't see his favourite idol anywhere. He begins to suspect Conan because he gets sleepy every time Conan is around. He angrily demands Conan tell him everything until his idol, Yoko, appears in front of him. She praises his brilliant deduction, and Kogoro is flattered by it. Conan is happy that he's off the hook.

</details>

#### Anime Episode(s)
* [Episode 31 - Murder at Television Studio / The TV Station Murder Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/TV_Station_Murder_Case).
* Manga vs Anime - [TV Station Murder Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/TV_Station_Murder_Case#Manga_to_anime_changes).

<br>
<hr>

### Case 029 - [Coffee Shop Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/Volume_11#Coffee_Shop_Case)
#### File 105 - An Important Person?
Ran, who is in a beautiful dress, is attempting to sneak out to a date when Kogoro is sleeping. Conan asks her where she is going, and she replies that she's going for a date with Shinichi and has to keep it as a secret from her father. After she leaves, Conan is happily looking at Ran from the window while thinking about how excited Ran is to go for a date with Shinichi. After a while, he only realises that it's impossible because he is Shinichi and wonders why Ran is lying. At first, he acts like he doesn't bother, but later he follows Ran to meet her date at the Royal Cafe. At the cafe, Conan tells Ran that he wants to meet Shinichi, prompting Ran to reveal that she is not meeting Shinichi but someone else. Conan asks her who the person is, and Ran replies that the person is someone special to her. Conan asks Ran again whether the person is more important than Shinichi, but Ran says that she can't compare them. Ran asks Conan to go home, but Conan, who is in a gloomy face, replies that he doesn't feel like going home anymore. Ran offers to buy him a cake to bring home and leave the cafe. 

Conan is confident that he can see the person that Ran is going to meet. After a while, a woman in sunglasses comes in. She orders a cup of coffee and angrily repeats the order after the waitress appears confused with it. The next customer who comes in is a man named Yuichi Sumeragi. He wants to get a quiet place to finish his paper. Conan finds it weird that his books and notebooks are strapped together. Then, a beautiful and elegant woman named Eri Kisaki comes in and tells the waitress that she's meeting someone. Conan looks at her and notices she tries to open an envelope, and the envelope header is "Kisaki Law Office". Conan feels it's impossible for Ran to be meeting a lawyer and becomes scared after she gives Conan a stern stare while Conan is looking at her. Later, a big man named Juzo Tonoyama comes into the cafe. The waiter asks him what happened to his finger, and Juzo replies that he sprained it during rugby practice and can't wear his wedding ring. Conan doesn't think Juzo is meeting anyone because he doesn't look around and he doesn't think Ran is having an affair with a married man. Then, the woman in sunglasses asks where the bathroom is. The waiter points in the direction and tells her that it's a shared-gender bathroom. Conan finds it strange that she doesn't know where the bathroom is, but she knows it's a shared bathroom when she replies that she knew about it. After that, Shiro Wakaoji walks into the cafe. He looks around, tells the waitress that he's meeting a girl, and orders a coffee. Shiro gets a call and tells the person that he's meeting a girl who he met at the ski slopes. He mentions that the girl got easily flattered after he sweet-talked her. He tells the person on the phone that he can do anything he wants once the girl belongs to him and ensure that his other girlfriends are unaware of it. Conan assumes Shiro is talking about Ran and prepares to use his "Super Sneakers" until the waitress calls his name.

Conan answers the phone, and Ran tells him that the cash register is broken at the cake shop. She asks whether someone is looking for her, and Conan asks whether the person has long hair. Ran affirms it must be her date and finds it strange because the person usually ties up his or her hair. Conan sees Shiro has his hair tied up after getting off his phone. Conan warns her not to meet the person, but Ran doesn't hear that because the cash register has already been fixed, prompting her to hang up to rush back to the cafe. Shiro, who went to the bathroom during Conan's call, suddenly screams. Conan and Juzo run to the bathroom and open the door. They see Shiro is in shock, pointing to the blood oozing out from one of the stalls. Conan rushes to the stall and tries to push the stall door to open, but it gets stuck. He climbs up to the door and sees the woman in sunglasses covered with blood on the floor.

<br>

#### File 106: Location of the Weapon / The Weapon of the Crime
Ran is already 40 minutes late for the appointment. When she returns to the cafe, she sees a huge crowd and asks someone what happened. The person tells her that there is a murder case in the cafe. 

Meanwhile, Megure sees the photo of the crime taken from the top angle and asks Conan whether everything in the photo is correct. Conan confirms the position, telling him that he peeked from above the door. The victim is Yayoi Himeno and was stabbed to the heart. It appears that the murderer choked her until she passed out, stabbed her in the chest, and then pulled the blade out so she'd bleed to death. The victim's belongings are scattered along with the murder weapon, and the purse is empty. The victim's body was blocking the toilet door. Megure concludes that the intruder came through the window, killed the victim, stole the money, and fled out through the same window. He orders the police officers to cordon the streets to see if anyone is suspicious, but Conan interrupts him. Conan tells Megure that it seems strange that the window in the toilet is too clean, but Megure doesn't feel anything wrong with it. Eri suddenly appears and agrees with Conan's comment. Eri and Megure appear to know each other, prompting Conan to ask Megure about their acquaintance. Before Megure reveals Eri's identity, Eri deduces that based on the volume of blood, it must have splattered onto the murderer. If the murderer used the window to escape, the window should have some blood on it. The weapon was left behind because the culprit couldn't take it along. Eri is confident that the murderer is one of the customers in the cafe and asks whether that's what Conan wanted to say earlier, leaving Conan speechless with it.

Megure wonders how the murderer left the bathroom stall without using the window while the victim blocked the door. Eri believes there's one way to do it, and Megure wonders if it's through the gap between the door and the ceiling. Megure doubts the possibility, but Eri suggests one of the police officers give it a try at the next stall. The police officer proves that it's possible to use the gap to go to the next stall. Eri also notices the door to the bathroom has a lock, and nobody would know what happened inside if the door were locked. Eri asks Megure to quickly investigate who the murderer is so that he can let other people go. Megure asks the police officer to find out which customers came into the bathroom before and after the victim. Conan tells Megure that he remembers Juzo, Yuichi, Shiro, and even Eri went to the bathroom earlier. Eri praises Conan for having a good memory.

Yuichi went to the bathroom before the victim. Eri went in next after the victim, but after Yuichi came out. Juzo went into the bathroom after that, and the last person who went in was Shiro. Conan feels something is different but still agrees with the order when Megure asks for his confirmation. Conan is certain Yayoi was meeting someone in the cafe, but surprisingly, the person hasn't come forward after her death. He suspects one of them is the person who was supposed to meet Yayoi. The victim didn't know where the bathroom was but knew it was a gender-neutral bathroom, indicating that the meeting place was the bathroom. Conan suggests the suspects go through the opening between the ceiling and toilet door. Since Shiro and Juzo couldn't fit or go through the gap, the list of suspects narrows down to Eri and Yuichi. Eri questions the existence of the murder weapon, which is a thin string, before putting charges on someone. Then, a police officer claims that they found something like a string where Yuichi was sitting. Yuichi defends himself, claiming that the string is used to tie his books. Conan believes Yuichi is not the murderer because Yuichi went to the bathroom before Yayoi. Yayoi could've just followed him to the bathroom instead of asking where it was. Conan suspects Eri could be the murderer, but it seems a risky move for Eri to analyse the case, which puts her in a dangerous position.

The CSI officer asks whether it's fine to take the knife back to the station. Conan wonders why the knife handle is so bloody, but there is a thin strip at the end of the blade which has no blood. When Conan is checking the plastic bag with the knife, he notices that there's a trace of blood on his hand. He recalls that he didn't check the body but only climbed up to the toilet door. Suddenly, Conan finds out the murderer's trick and figures out who the murderer is. However, the evidence is only circumstantial, and there's no definitive proof. Eri gives Conan a scolding for playing as a detective, and Conan doesn't understand why he's so nervous in front of her. Then, she notices her wedding ring and figures out what he missed before.

<br>

#### File 107 - Two Mysteries
<details>
  <summary>Spoiler</summary>

All the circumstantial evidence points to Yuichi being the murderer. Conan informs Megure about the blood trace on top of the toilet door. He even tells Megure that it's more convenient to climb over the side wall to the next stall than climb over the door when the body is blocking it. Conan mentions that he doubts the murderer was splattered with blood because the knife handle is bloody. Megure notices the narrow strip at the base of the blade is clean. Conan suggests that maybe something was tied around it. Megure deduces that the murderer tied a string on the knife to stab the victim. However, he doesn't understand why there is a trace of blood on top of the door if the blood only splattered when the blade gets pulled out. Eri explains that the victim was the one who climbed over the wall because the murder occurred outside the stall. The victim's body was tossed over the wall to block the door, and when the knife was pulled out from outside using the string, it caused blood to splatter out inside the stall. The murderer also rummaged through the victim's belongings to make the crime scene appear like an intruder's work. Eri reveals that Juzo only fits the profile, leading Megure to accuse him of being the murderer. Juzo questions the proof, and Eva agrees that he would be cleared of all charges if she were his lawyer. Juzo claims that he came to the cafe to chat with the manager. Conan confirms with him that he sprained his finger after a rugby game, and Juzo says that he couldn't even wear his wedding ring because of that and shows his bandaged finger to Conan. When the bandage appears on Juzo's middle finger, Conan asks when Juzo re-bandaged his finger because when Juzo walked into the cafe, the bandage was originally on his ring finger. Megure deduces that the murderer used the bandage to choke the victim and pull the knife out. This means the victim's blood should be on the bandage. Eri teases that the murderer is foolish enough by wearing the physical evidence and admits that she wouldn't be able to defend that. Juzo attempts to flee and injures a couple of officers. Eri stands still at the door, ignoring Juzo's warning, and uses a judo throw on him. Conan tries to recall where he has seen the judo throw before. 

Later, it reveals that Yayoi was Juzo's mistress. She had been pressuring him for marriage, and Juzo killed her because he worried that his wife would find out about it. Conan still needs to solve another problem, but before he's thinking about what to do with Shiro, Ran appears and apologises to Conan for being late. Conan exposes Shiro's bragging words in front of Ran, but Ran has no idea who the man is. Meanwhile, Sonoko appears and asks whether what Conan said is true. Shiro tries to defend himself, but Sonoko slaps him. Conan realises Shiro was actually waiting for Sonoko and now wonders who Ran is waiting for. Suddenly, Eri appears and criticises Ran's dress. Ran tells Eri not to treat her like a baby, revealing that Eri is her mother. Conan is shocked with the revelation and feels tremendously scared. He immediately hides behind Ran. Eri is surprised with Conan's change, who was so spirited earlier in solving the case and claims that he doesn't like her anymore. Conan's instant reaction is because he recalls that Eri gave them a harsh scolding when they were children after he took Ran exploring around the neighbourhood. Ran suddenly remembers that Eri left home ten years ago and thinks maybe it's time for Eri to return home. Eri immediately rejects the idea and heavily criticises Kogoro. She claims that the only thing she got from Kogoro is Ran and a one-armed shoulder throw. Then, Ran asks Eri why she married him in the first place, and Eri answers because they were childhood friends. Ran asks why Eri is still wearing the wedding ring, and she replies that the wedding ring is for repelling worthless men. When they are walking on the street, a TV from one of the shops is showing the case that Kogoro solved on TV the other day. Initially, Eri seems impressed; however, after seeing Kogoro's behaviour on the TV, Eva confirms that she won't be going back anytime soon. Before she leaves, she advises Ran not to get involved with any childhood friends and detectives because there's nothing good that will come from it, leaving Conan to glare at Kogoro's image on TV.

</details>

#### Anime Episode(s)
* [Episode 32 - The Coffee Shop Murder / Murder at the Local Diner](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/Coffee_Shop_Murder_Case).
* Manga vs Anime - [Coffee Shop Case vs Murder at the Local Diner](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/Coffee_Shop_Murder_Case#Manga_to_anime_changes).

<br>
<hr>

### Case 030 - Mist Tengu Case
#### Gadget Introduced - [Button Speaker](https://www.detectiveconanworld.com/wiki/Button_Speaker)

<br>

#### File 108 - The Fasting Room / Training Room
Kogoro, Ran, and Conan are on their way home from a trip to see the cherry blossoms. Kogoro takes a shortcut using the mountain road and ends up lost and having a puncture. The rain begins to pour, and they are in the middle of nowhere around the area. Conan sees a temple nearby and suggests going there to ask for help.

At the Sandei Temple, a monk rudely asks them what they want. He assumes that they are working for the media and fiercely telling them to leave. Kogoro politely explains his situation and asks whether they can spend the night at the temple. The monk immediately changes his tone, assuming they come to the temple for some news coverage but never explaining further about it. The monk tells them that spending a night with a vegetarian meal costs ten thousand yen per person, which shocks Kogoro. Kogoro agrees to stay after the monk mentions that it will take six hours to walk to the foot of the mountain. The monk happily tells the other monks inside the temple that they finally have guests. The monk warns Kogoro, Ran, and Conan that it's best to stay in the temple on a rainy night, or else they will see the gleaming eyes of a creature. Ran is guessing whether the creature is a bear, but the monk says that it's an ancient demon which eats human souls and thrives in rain and darkness. The ancient demon is called Kiritengu, the mist goblin. After telling them that the story is taboo, the monk introduces the other four monks training at that temple. The other four monks are:
* Kannen - 21 years old and has the longest training in the temple.
* Tonnen – A big eater, good cook, and strong monk.
* Mokunen – A monk who has good hands and is trusted with all the carpentry around the temple.
* Shunen - A studious and sharp monk who just joined them that year.

The monk who is talking to them finally introduces himself as Tenei, the temple's resident priest. While Tonnen and Mokunen prepare the dinner, Kannen and Shunen bring Kogoro, Ran, and Conan to tour around the temple. During the tour, Conan sees a locked room. Kannen warns him not to go inside, but Conan just goes into the room anyway and sees a high ceiling. Kogoro asks what that room is for, but Kannen looks nervous. Shunen answers that the room is a training room used by priests who broke the teachings and would be locked in the room to reflect on their mistakes. Kannen adds that the room is no longer being used. Kogoro admires the sturdy door, and the whole room is painted with a thick coat of lacquer so that nobody can climb on the wall. Conan wonders why there are boards on one area of the wall that have different colours. Shunen explains that Mokunen fixed that part after the wall was broken during a certain incident and confirms with Kannen. Shunen says that it happened before he entered the temple, and just as he is about to share more about it, Kannen shouts at him to stop, telling him that the guests don't need to know the details. Shunen apologises, and Ran wonders what the sound that comes from the top is. Kannen says that it's a waterfall and suggests going outside of the room to have a look. 

Ran is amazed with the waterfall view, and the cherry blossom petals are on the ground. The petals flew from the trees above the waterfall. Kannen suggests going back inside for dinner, and they are surprised with the abundance of food. The monks tell them that sometimes, they have a day off and go to the beach. Suddenly, Conan asks what a Kiritengu (Mist Goblin) is, and everyone stops eating. Kannen asks where Conan hears that, and Tenei apologises for his slip of the tongue. Kannen takes it seriously, but Tenei feels it's just a harmless legend. Tenei explains that the Tengu goblin creeps into the village like mist on rainy nights. There's a saying that the ancient demon could go up to the trees, hang the bodies and eat their flesh. It preys on young girls for their tender flesh, and it scares Ran when Tenei uses her as an example. Tenei feels there's nothing to worry about because it's just a legend. However, Mokunen thinks it's not fully a legend because there was a strange incident that happened two years ago. Kannen tries to stop Mokunen from telling more, but Conan asks them to tell the story so that Kogoro, who is a great detective, can solve it. The revelation of Kogoro's identity excites the monks, and they want to tell the whole story until Tenei stops them. Tenei reminds them they had promised not to speak about the incident anymore. He tells Kogoro that they will prepare a room for him, but he hopes that Kogoro will leave the temple immediately in the morning.

Ran wakes Kogoro and Ran in the middle of the night because she is too scared to go to the bathroom alone. Conan asks Kogoro whether the untold incident bothers him, but Kogoro says that some things are better left alone. Kogoro doesn't believe that Kiritengu really exists. Suddenly, a voice behind Kogoro asks whether Kogoro is talking about him, and Kogoro screams. Later, Ran unmasks herself and proves Kogoro is scared.

The next day, most of the monks look tired during breakfast. They ask where Tenei and Kannen are. Tonnen says that Kannen is looking for Tenei, and suddenly they hear Kannen's scream from the training room. They rush to the training room and see the priest is hanging high in the room while Kannen claims that the Tengu did it.

<br>


#### File 109 - The Sakura Blossoms and the Hole in the Wall
When Megure arrives at the temple, Conan points out that Kannen has good intuition because he could straight away notice that the priest was hanging up there since the room has a very high ceiling. Mokunen reveals that the same thing happened two years ago. Megure recalls that the victim was Chunen, and at that time, Mokunen and Kannen discovered Chunen's body in the same room. Megure deduces that it's a suicide because it's impossible to carry a person up there. The beam is also too narrow for a person to stand, and there are no signs of anything at the beam to indicate something was dragged up. However, he has no explanation for the broken wall except that the two victims broke the hole to continue with the legend. Conan finds the broken wall is strange because there are no broken pieces of wall or window anywhere.

Suddenly, the victim's granddaughter, Kikuno, comes in, crying loudly while looking at her grandfather's body. Megure remembers Kikuno, who also cried over Chunen's body two years ago. She comes along with her husband, who got married a few days ago. Her husband is the successor of a big temple, and they'd been betrothed since childhood. Kannen reveals that he was shocked when he heard it from the priest because he thought Kikuno would end up with Chunen. The monks assume that Chunen killed himself after hearing Kikuno was getting married, and the priest, probably troubled by it, committed suicide. Conan is not convinced that it's a suicide but believes both victims were killed by the same person. Conan asks Shunen whether he heard anything the night before, but he says that it was a quiet night. Conan later finds a way to get down to the woods below the temple. He tries to find any fragments of the broken wall and window, but to no avail. As he is looking around in the woods, a mysterious figure is hiding behind the tree. Conan finds a piece of board with duct tape, but suddenly, Ran grabs him by the collar and brings him back to the temple while the mysterious figure watches them behind the tree.

The police leave the temple, and Megure mentions that they couldn't find the suicide note, but Kogoro is convinced that it's a suicide. Inside Conan's mind, he believes it's a murder and tries to connect the clues – a broken wall, a jagged-out duckboard, and a piece of a small window with duct tape that has fallen into the trees below the temple. When Conan remembers the cherry blossoms, he suddenly figures out how the murderer killed and who the murderer is.

<br>

#### File 110 - The Power of Levitation / The Power to Float in the Air
<details>
  <summary>Spoiler</summary>

Conan tricks Kogoro to go outside of the training room. Conan removes the duckboard beforehand, and Kogoro passes out after an accidental slip. He sticks a button-sized speaker on Kogoro's forehead, and when a police officer comes in, Conan tells him that Kogoro wants everyone to gather at the crime scene, and he also asks for a duct tape.

Kogoro explains the case from the clerestory window in the room while the others look up to listen. Conan deduces that the murderer floated up to the beam with the victim. The room is filled with the water from the waterfall through the window. The body was placed on the inflatable raft and covered with a sheet to protect him from getting wet. Megure doesn't understand how to guide the water to the room because there's a distance between the window and the waterfall. Conan demonstrates his theory of using the duckboard, which he taped with duct tape, and places it between the waterfall and the window. The cherry blossom petals were not only found on the duckboard, but some also stuck on the wall when the water was drained from the room. The murderer left the room and rushed back to the first floor to seal the small window to prevent the water from leaking. Once the room was filled and the murderer floated up to the beam, he tied the body to it and escaped through the clerestory window. Then, he drained the water from the outside by using an axe to break the small window. The force of the water flowing out rapidly destroys the wall, creating a large hole. 

Based on the physics calculations of the room's size and water capacity, it would take at least seven hours to fill the room with water. The estimated time of death was between 10 pm and 12 am on the night before, and the body was discovered at eight in the morning. The murderer must have been in the room between 12 am and 6 am. Since Shunen mentioned before that he was reading until 3 am, Conan asks him who he heard was screaming in the middle of the night. Shunen replied that it was Ran screaming, and the answer surprises the other monks. Shunen looks confused, and Conan reveals that Kogoro was the one who screamed. Conan deduces that Shunen couldn't hear it because he was in the training room with the roaring water. Megure hardly believes that is considered evidence, but Conan convinces Shunen's fingerprints are on the window fragment. The other monks don't believe Shunen is the killer because the first murder happened two years ago and Shunen joined the temple only a year ago. Conan explains that the first victim was killed by Tenei, who also used the same trick. Conan noticed that the curve of the duckboard was old and believes that Tenei was afraid that the case would be solved. Conan makes a guess based on his gut feeling, saying that Shunen and Chunen were brothers.

Shunen admits that Chunen was his older brother. He hides his identity as a monk from a remote temple to investigate his brother's death. The night before, Shunen observed that Tenei reacted strangely upon learning Kogoro was a detective, prompting him to go to Tenei's room to ask for answers while Tenei was in a drunken state. Tenei blabbed out that he killed Chunen because he didn't want Chunen to be with his granddaughter, who was already engaged to the successor of a large temple. Shunen asked Tenei to turn himself in, but he said there's no evidence to prove it. Tenei also mentioned that he saw no harm from it since that incident has increased the temple's prestige. Shunen became enraged after hearing Tenei's response and strangled Tenei to death with his belt. Shunen used the same trick the priest had used on Chunen two years ago.

The next day, Megure and Ran praise Kogoro for his physics knowledge, but Kogoro has no idea what a pascal is when they mention it.

</details>

#### Anime Episode(s)
* [Episode 52 The Mist Goblin Legend Murder Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/The_Mist_Goblin_Legend_Murder_Case).
* Manga vs Anime - [Mist Tengu Case vs The Mist Golbin Legend Murder Case](https://detectiveconan96.fandom.com/wiki/The_Mist_Goblin_Legend_Murder_Case#Manga_to_anime_changes).

<br>
<hr>

### Personal Thoughts
I found this volume interesting because it portrays that Conan is not perfect. Once in a while, Conan made some mistakes in his analysis, or someone shared similar wisdom in solving the case. I felt "The Mist Tengu Case" seemed a bit farfetched, but I still felt fascinated by the creativity of the killing method.

##### Record
| Title | Description |
| -- | -- |
| **ISBN** | 9781421504414 / 1421504413 |
| **Pages** | 192 |
| **Published Year** | 16/05/2006 (Original Published Date: 18/07/1996) |
| **Date Read** | 26-05-2026 - 02-06-2026 |
| **Rating** | 5 / 5 |
| **Genre** | Manga, Mystery |
| **Country** | Japan |
| **Notes / Themes** | murder, revenge, detective, investigation  | 
